README.md, before:

# Product Refinement Tool

A command-line tool for generating and refining product specifications using AI. This tool helps product managers, developers, and stakeholders create detailed, well-structured product specifications through an interactive process.

## Features

- Generate initial product specifications from brief descriptions
- Refine specifications through AI-guided questions
- Save and manage multiple versions of specifications
- Generate engineering todo lists from specifications
- Beautiful command-line interface with progress indicators
- Markdown formatting for better readability
- Caching of AI responses for better performance
- Comprehensive error handling and logging

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/allenhutchison/product-refinement.git
cd product-refinement
```

2. Install the package:
```bash
pip install -e .
```

## Usage

The tool provides several commands for managing product specifications:

### Create a New Specification

```bash
refine create
```

This will start an interactive process where you:
1. Enter a brief description of your product
2. Review the initial specification
3. Answer follow-up questions to refine the specification
4. Save the final specification

### List Saved Specifications

```bash
refine list
```

Shows all saved specifications with their versions and timestamps.

### Edit an Existing Specification

```bash
refine edit <spec-path>
```

Opens an existing specification for further refinement.

### Generate Engineering Todo List

```bash
refine todo <spec-path>
```

Generates a detailed engineering todo list from an existing specification, including:
- Tasks organized by section (Architecture, Core Features, Infrastructure, etc.)
- Complexity estimates for each task
- Dependencies between tasks
- Technical notes and testing requirements
- Option to save the todo list as a JSON file

### Command Line Options

- `--model`: Specify which AI model to use
- `--log-level`: Set logging level (DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR)

Example:
```bash
refine --model gemini-pro --log-level DEBUG create
```

## Configuration

The tool uses the following configuration settings:

- `MODEL_NAME`: The AI model to use (default: gemini-2.0-flash)
- `LOG_LEVEL`: Logging level (default: INFO)
- `CACHE_DIR`: Directory for caching AI responses
- `LOG_DIR`: Directory for log files
- `SPECS_DIR`: Directory for saved specifications
- `PROMPT_DIR`: Directory for prompt templates
- `CACHE_EXPIRY`: Time in seconds before cache entries expire

## Project Structure

```
src/
└── product_refinement/
    ├── __init__.py
    ├── __main__.py
    ├── ai/
    │   ├── __init__.py
    │   └── service.py
    ├── cli/
    │   ├── __init__.py
    │   └── commands.py
    ├── prompts/
    │   ├── initial.txt
    │   ├── refinement.txt
    │   ├── final_refinement.txt
    │   └── todo.txt
    └── utils/
        ├── __init__.py
        ├── config.py
        ├── display.py
        ├── storage.py
        ├── types.py
        └── validation.py
```

## Development

1. Set up a virtual environment:
```bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
```

2. Install development dependencies:
```bash
pip install -e ".[dev]"
```

3. Run tests:
```bash
pytest
```

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Run tests
5. Submit a pull request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

Add support for multiple document types with modular prompt templates

README.md, after:

# Product Refinement Tool

A command-line tool for generating and refining product specifications using AI. This tool helps product managers, developers, and stakeholders create detailed, well-structured product specifications through an interactive process.

## Features

- Generate initial product specifications from brief descriptions
- Refine specifications through AI-guided questions
- Save and manage multiple versions of specifications
- Generate engineering todo lists from specifications
- Beautiful command-line interface with progress indicators
- Markdown formatting for better readability
- Caching of AI responses for better performance
- Comprehensive error handling and logging
- Support for multiple document types through modular prompts

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/allenhutchison/product-refinement.git
cd product-refinement
```

2. Install the package:
```bash
pip install -e .
```

## Usage

The tool provides several commands for managing product specifications:

### Create a New Specification

```bash
refine create
```

This will start an interactive process where you:
1. Enter a brief description of your product
2. Review the initial specification
3. Answer follow-up questions to refine the specification
4. Save the final specification

### List Saved Specifications

```bash
refine list
```

Shows all saved specifications with their versions and timestamps.

### Edit an Existing Specification

```bash
refine edit <spec-path>
```

Opens an existing specification for further refinement.

### Generate Engineering Todo List

```bash
refine todo <spec-path>
```

Generates a detailed engineering todo list from an existing specification, including:
- Tasks organized by section (Architecture, Core Features, Infrastructure, etc.)
- Complexity estimates for each task
- Dependencies between tasks
- Technical notes and testing requirements
- Option to save the todo list as a JSON file

### Command Line Options

- `--model`: Specify which AI model to use
- `--log-level`: Set logging level (DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR)
- `--doc-type`: Specify the document type (e.g., product_requirements)

Example:
```bash
refine --model gemini-pro --log-level DEBUG --doc-type product_requirements create
```

## Configuration

The tool uses the following configuration settings:

- `MODEL_NAME`: The AI model to use (default: gemini-2.0-flash)
- `LOG_LEVEL`: Logging level (default: INFO)
- `CACHE_DIR`: Directory for caching AI responses
- `LOG_DIR`: Directory for log files
- `SPECS_DIR`: Directory for saved specifications
- `PROMPT_DIR`: Directory for prompt templates
- `CACHE_EXPIRY`: Time in seconds before cache entries expire
- `DOCUMENT_TYPE`: Type of document to generate (default: product_requirements)

## Adding New Document Types

To add support for a new document type:

1. Create a new subdirectory in the `prompts` directory (e.g., `prompts/technical_spec/`)
2. Add the required prompt files to this directory:
   - `initial.txt` - Prompt for generating the initial document
   - `refinement.txt` - Prompt for follow-up questions
   - `final_refinement.txt` - Prompt for finalizing the document
   - `todo.txt` - Prompt for generating todo items
3. Use the `--doc-type` option to specify your new document type

## Project Structure

```
src/
└── product_refinement/
    ├── __init__.py
    ├── __main__.py
    ├── ai/
    │   ├── __init__.py
    │   └── service.py
    ├── cli/
    │   ├── __init__.py
    │   └── commands.py
    ├── prompts/
    │   ├── __init__.py
    │   └── product_requirements/
    │       ├── __init__.py
    │       ├── initial.txt
    │       ├── refinement.txt
    │       ├── final_refinement.txt
    │       └── todo.txt
    └── utils/
        ├── __init__.py
        ├── config.py
        ├── display.py
        ├── storage.py
        ├── types.py
        └── validation.py
```

## Development

1. Set up a virtual environment:
```bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
```

2. Install development dependencies:
```bash
pip install -e ".[dev]"
```

3. Run tests:
```bash
pytest
```

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Run tests
5. Submit a pull request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.
